.TH TAG 1 "17 Jan 2018" "0.1"
.SH NAME
tag \- a tool for using tags in files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tag
.RI [ help | -h | --help ]
.PP
.B tag
.RI [ version | -v | --version ]
.PP
.B tag
.IR add | filter | remove
TAGS [PATH]...
.PP
.B tag
.I clear
[DIRECTORY|.tags]...
.PP
.B tag
.I find
TAGS [DIRECTORY]...
.PP
.B tag
.I list
[PATH]...
.PP
.B tag
.IR copy | move
SRC DEST
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tag allows a better file organization, with the use of short descriptions (tags)
to group related files.
.SH OPTIONS
Each command interact with files differently, but their options follows the
same idea:
.PP
.TP
.I TAGS
A list of comma (,) separated tags, with no space after the comma, but
whitespace inside the tag is allowed (you will have to quote the argument). If
it is only one tag, there shouldn't exist any comma.
.PP
.TP
.I PATH
The path to a file, absolute or relative to the current working directory. It
can be provided from
.BR stdin .
.PP
.TP
.I DIRECTORY
The same as
.IR PATH ,
but must be a valid directory.
.PP
.TP
.I .tags
The same as
.IR PATH ,
but must be a valid
.I .tags
file.
.PP
.TP
.I SRC
The same as
.IR PATH ,
but must be specified as an argument, and not from
.BR stdin .
.PP
.TP
.I DEST
The same as
.IR SRC .
.SH COMMANDS
.BR help ", " -h ", " --help
.RS
Outputs the
.BR SYNOPSIS /USAGE.
.RE
.PP
.BR version ", " -v ", " --version
.RS
Outputs the version.
.RE
.PP
.B add
.IR TAGS " [" PATH ]...
.RS
Adds
.I TAGS
into the
.I .tags
relative to each
.IR PATH .
Duplicate tags are removed.
.RE
.PP
.B filter
.IR TAGS " [" PATH ]...
.RS
Echos only
.I PATH
which contain all
.IR TAGS .
.RE
.PP
.B remove
.IR TAGS " [" PATH ]...
.RS
Removes all
.I TAGS
from all
.IR PATH .
.I PATH
does not need to exist, but it relative
.I .tags
does.
.RE
.PP
.B clear
.RI [ DIRECTORY | .tags ]...
.RS
Removes file entries in
.I .tags
that do not exist. If a
.I DIRECTORY
is provided, all
.I .tags
inside it (recursively) are cleared.
.RE
.PP
.B find
.IR TAGS " [" DIRECTORY ]...
.RS
Finds all files inside
.I DIRECTORY
(recursively) that have all
.IR .tags .
Paths returned are relative to
.IR DIRECTORY .
.RE
.PP
.B list
.RI [ PATH ]...
.RS
Lists tags associated to
.IR PATH ,
in a comma separated list.
.RE
.PP
.B copy
.I SRC DEST
.RS
Copies
.I SRC
tags to
.IR DEST ,
preserving previous
.I DEST
tags. If
.I DEST
does not exist,
.I SRC
is copied into it. See
.I -T
in
.BR cp (1).
.RE
.PP
.B move
.I SRC DEST
.RS
Moves
.I SRC
tags to
.IR DEST ,
preserving previous
.I DEST
tags and removing all
.I SRC
tags. If
.I DEST
does not exist,
.I SRC
is moved into it. See
.I -T
in
.BR mv (1).
.RE
.SH ERROR CODES
.IP 1
Bad command call
.IP 2
Unexpected argument
.IP 3
File does not exist or is inaccessible
.IP 4
Not a directory or
.I 3
.IP 5
File has no tags
.IP 6
File is not a .tags file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR awk (1),
.BR basename (1),
.BR bash (1)
.IR command ,
.BR cp (1),
.BR cut (1),
.BR dirname (1),
.BR find (1),
.BR grep (1),
.BR mv (1),
.BR printf (1),
.BR sed (1)
.SH BUGS
.IR PATH " and " TAGS
can not contain "\\n".
.PP
If you add a tag in the current directory, the
.I .tags
file is created there,
instead of in the parent directory.
.SH NOTES
Developed with GNU bash, version
.I 4.3.48(1)-release
.SH AUTHOR
Aryel Mota Góis
.RB ( aryelgois
at
.IR GitHub )
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Aryel Mota Góis. MIT License.
